frederick douglass
“what to the [[slave]] is the fourth of july?” (1852)

mr. president, [[friends]] and fellow [[citizens]]:

he who could address this audience without a quailing sensation, has stronger nerves than i have. i do not [[remember]] ever to have appeared as a speaker before any assembly more shrinkingly, nor with greater distrust of my ability, than i do this day. a feeling has crept over me, quite unfavorable to the exercise of my limited powers [[power]] of [[speech]]. the task before me is one which requires much previous [[thought]] and study for its proper performance. i [[know]] that apologies of this sort are generally considered flat and unmeaning. i trust, however, that mine will not be so considered.
should i seem at ease, my appearance would much misrepresent me. the little [[experience]] i have had in addressing [[public]] meetings, in [[country]] schoolhouses, avails me nothing on the [[present]] [[occasion]].

the papers and placards say, that i am to deliver a 4th [of] july oration. this certainly sounds large, and out of the [[common]] way, for it is true that i have often had the [[privilege]] to speak in this beautiful hall, and to address many who now [[honor]] me with their presence. but neither their familiar faces, nor the [[perfect]] gage i [[think]] i have of corinthian hall, seems to [[free]] me from embarrassment.

the [[fact]] is, ladies [[lady]] and gentlemen, the distance between this platform and the [[slave]] plantation, from which i escaped, is considerable — and the difficulties to be overcome in getting from the latter to the former, are by no means slight. that i am here to-day is, to me, a matter of astonishment as well as of gratitude. you will not, therefore, be surprised, if in what i have to say i evince no elaborate preparation, nor grace my [[speech]] with any high sounding exordium. with little [[experience]] and with less learning, i have been able to throw my thoughts [[thought]] hastily and imperfectly together; and trusting to your patient and generous indulgence, i will proceed to lay them before you.

this, for the [[purpose]] of this celebration, is the 4th of july. it is the birthday of your national independence, and of your [[political]] [[freedom]]. this, to you, is what the passover was to the emancipated [[people]] of [[god]]. it carries your minds [[mind]] back to the day, and to the act of your [[great]] deliverance; and to the signs, and to the wonders, associated with that act, and that day. this celebration also marks the beginning of another year of your national [[life]]; and reminds you that the [[republic]] of [[america]] is now 76 years old. i am glad, fellow-citizens, that your nation is so [[young]].
seventy-six years, though a [[good]] old [[age]] for a [[man]], is but a mere speck in the [[life]] of a nation. three score years and ten is the allotted [[time]] for [[individual]] [[men]]; but nations number their years by thousands. according to this [[fact]], you are, even now, only in the beginning of your national [[career]], still lingering in the period of [[childhood]]. i repeat, i am glad this is so. there is [[hope]] in the [[thought]], and [[hope]] is much needed, under the dark clouds which lower above the horizon. the eye of the reformer is met with angry flashes, portending disastrous times [[time]]; but his [[heart]] may well beat lighter at the [[thought]] that [[america]] is [[young]], and that she is still in the impressible stage of her existence. may he not [[hope]] that high lessons of [[wisdom]], of [[justice]] and of [[truth]], will yet give direction to her [[destiny]]? were the nation older, the patriot’s [[heart]] might be sadder, and the reformer’s brow heavier. its future might be shrouded in gloom, and the [[hope]] of its prophets [[prophet]] go out in [[sorrow]]. there is consolation in the [[thought]] that [[america]] is [[young]]. [[great]] streams are not easily turned from channels, worn deep in the course of ages [[age]]. they may sometimes rise in quiet and stately majesty, and inundate the [[land]], refreshing and fertilizing the [[earth]] with their mysterious properties [[property]]. they may also rise in wrath and fury, and bear away, on their angry waves, the accumulated [[wealth]] of years of toil and hardship. they, however, gradually flow back to the same old channel, and flow on as serenely as ever. but, while the river may not be turned aside, it may dry up, and leave nothing behind but the withered branch, and the unsightly rock, to howl in the abyss-sweeping wind, the [[sad]] tale of departed [[glory]]. as with rivers so with nations.

fellow-citizens, i shall not presume to dwell at length on the associations that cluster about this day. the simple story of it is that, 76 years ago, the [[people]] of this [[country]] were british subjects [[subject]]. the style and title of your “sovereign people” (in which you now glory) was not then born. you were under the british [[crown]]. your fathers [[father]] esteemed the english [[government]] as the [[home]] [[government]]; and [[england]] as the fatherland. this [[home]] [[government]], you [[know]], although a considerable distance from your [[home]], did, in the exercise of its parental prerogatives, impose upon its colonial [[children]], such restraints, burdens and limitations, as, in its mature [[judgment]], it deemed [[wise]], [[right]] and proper.

but, your fathers [[father]], who had not adopted the fashionable [[idea]] of this day, of the infallibility of [[government]], and the absolute [[character]] of its acts, presumed to differ from the [[home]] [[government]] in [[respect]] to the [[wisdom]] and the [[justice]] of some of those burdens and restraints. they went so far in their excitement as to pronounce the measures of [[government]] [[unjust]], unreasonable, and oppressive, and altogether such as ought not to be quietly submitted to. i scarcely need say, fellow- [[citizens]], that my [[opinion]] of those measures fully accords with that of your fathers [[father]]. such a declaration of agreement on my part would not be worth much to anybody. it would, certainly, prove nothing, as to what part i might have taken, had i lived during the [[great]] controversy of 1776. to say now that [[america]] was [[right]], and [[england]] [[wrong]], is exceedingly easy. everybody can say it; the dastard, not less than the [[noble]] brave, can flippantly discant on the [[tyranny]] of [[england]] towards the american colonies. it is fashionable to do so; but there was a [[time]] when to pronounce against [[england]], and in favor of the cause of the colonies, tried [[men’s]] souls [[soul]]. they who did so were accounted in their day, plotters of mischief, agitators and rebels, dangerous [[men]]. to side with the [[right]], against the [[wrong]], with the [[weak]] against the [[strong]], and with the [[oppressed]] against the oppressor! here lies [[lie]] the [[merit]], and the one which, of all others, seems unfashionable in our day. the cause of [[liberty]] may be stabbed by the [[men]] who [[glory]] in the deeds of your fathers [[father]]. but, to proceed.

feeling themselves harshly and unjustly treated by the [[home]] [[government]], your fathers [[father]], like [[men]] of honesty, and [[men]] of spirit, earnestly sought redress. they petitioned and remonstrated; they did so in a decorous, respectful, and [[loyal]] manner. their conduct was wholly unexceptionable. this, however, did not [[answer]] the [[purpose]]. they saw themselves treated with [[sovereign]] indifference, coldness and scorn. yet they persevered. they were not the [[men]] to look back.

as the sheet anchor takes a firmer hold, when the ship is tossed by the storm, so did the cause of your fathers [[father]] grow stronger, as it breasted the chilling blasts of kingly displeasure. the [[greatest]] and [[best]] of british statesmen admitted its [[justice]], and the loftiest eloquence of the british senate came to its support. but, with that blindness which seems to be the unvarying characteristic of tyrants [[tyrant]], since pharaoh and his hosts were drowned in the red sea, the british [[government]] persisted in the exactions complained of.

the madness of this course, we [[believe]], is admitted now, even by [[england]]; but we [[fear]] the lesson is wholly lost on our [[present]] ruler.

oppression makes a [[wise]] [[man]] mad. your fathers [[father]] were [[wise]] [[men]], and if they did not go mad, they became restive under this treatment. they [[felt]] themselves the victims of grievous wrongs [[wrong]], wholly incurable in their colonial capacity. with brave [[men]] there is always a remedy for oppression. just here, the [[idea]] of a total separation of the colonies from the [[crown]] was born! it was a startling [[idea]], much more so, than we, at this distance of [[time]], regard it. the timid and the prudent (as has been intimated) of that day, were, of course, shocked and alarmed by it.

such [[people]] lived then, had lived before, and will, probably, ever have a place on this planet; and their course, in [[respect]] to any [[great]] [[change]], (no matter how [[great]] the [[good]] to be attained, or the [[wrong]] to be redressed by it), may be calculated with as much precision as can be the course of the stars. they hate all changes [[change]], but silver, gold and copper change! of this sort of [[change]] they are always strongly in favor.

these [[people]] were called tories in the days of your fathers [[father]]; and the appellation, probably, conveyed the same [[idea]] that is meant by a more [[modern]], though a somewhat less euphonious term, which we often find in our papers, applied to some of our old politicians.
their opposition to the then dangerous [[thought]] was earnest and powerful; but, amid all their terror and affrighted vociferations against it, the alarming and revolutionary [[idea]] moved on, and the [[country]] with it.

on the 2d of july, 1776, the old continental congress, to the dismay of the lovers of ease, and the worshipers of [[property]], clothed that dreadful [[idea]] with all the [[authority]] of national sanction. they did so in the form of a resolution; and as we seldom hit upon resolutions, drawn up in our day whose transparency is at all [[equal]] to this, it may refresh your minds [[mind]] and [[help]] my story if i [[read]] it. “resolved, that these [[united]] colonies are, and of [[right]], ought to be [[free]] and independent states; that they are absolved from all allegiance to the british [[crown]]; and that all [[political]] connection between them and the [[state]] of [[great]] [[britain]] is, and ought to be, dissolved.”

citizens, your fathers [[father]] made [[good]] that resolution. they succeeded; and to-day you reap the fruits of their [[success]]. the [[freedom]] gained is yours; and you, therefore, may properly celebrate this anniversary. the 4th of july is the first [[great]] [[fact]] in your nation’s [[history]] — the very ring-bolt in the chain of your yet undeveloped [[destiny]].

pride and [[patriotism]], not less than gratitude, prompt you to celebrate and to hold it in perpetual remembrance. i have said that the declaration of independence is the ring-bolt to the chain of your nation’s [[destiny]]; so, indeed, i regard it. the principles [[principle]] contained in that instrument are saving principles [[principle]]. stand by those principles [[principle]], be true to them on all occasions [[occasion]], in all places, against all foes, and at whatever cost.

from the round top of your ship of [[state]], dark and threatening clouds may be seen. heavy billows, like mountains in the distance, disclose to the leeward huge forms of flinty rocks! that bolt drawn, that chain broken, and all is lost. cling to this day — cling to it, and to its principles [[principle]], with the grasp of a storm-tossed mariner to a spar at midnight.

the coming into being of a nation, in any circumstances, is an interesting event. but, besides general considerations, there were peculiar circumstances which make the advent of this [[republic]] an event of special attractiveness.

the whole scene, as i look back to it, was simple, dignified and sublime.

the [[population]] of the [[country]], at the [[time]], stood at the insignificant number of three millions. the [[country]] was [[poor]] in the munitions of [[war]]. the [[population]] was [[weak]] and scattered, and the [[country]] a wilderness unsubdued. there were then no means of concert and combination, such as [[exist]] now. neither steam nor lightning had then been reduced to order and discipline. from the potomac to the delaware was a [[journey]] of many days. under these, and innumerable other disadvantages, your fathers [[father]] declared for [[liberty]] and independence and triumphed.

fellow [[citizens]], i am not wanting in [[respect]] for the fathers [[father]] of this [[republic]]. the signers of the declaration of independence were brave [[men]]. they were [[great]] [[men]] too — [[great]] enough to give fame to a [[great]] [[age]]. it does not often happen to a nation to raise, at one [[time]], such a number of truly [[great]] [[men]]. the point from which i am compelled to view them is not, certainly, the most favorable; and yet i cannot contemplate their [[great]] deeds with less than admiration. they were statesmen, patriots and heroes, and for the [[good]] they did, and the principles [[principle]] they contended for, i will unite with you to [[honor]] their memory.

they loved their [[country]] [[better]] than their own private interests; and, though this is not the highest form of [[human]] excellence, all will concede that it is a rare [[virtue]], and that when it is exhibited, it ought to command [[respect]]. he who will, intelligently, lay down his [[life]] for his [[country]], is a [[man]] whom it is not in [[human]] [[nature]] to despise. your fathers [[father]] staked their lives [[life]], their fortunes [[fortune]], and their [[sacred]] [[honor]], on the cause of their [[country]]. in their admiration of [[liberty]], they lost sight of all other interests.

they were [[peace]] [[men]]; but they preferred [[revolution]] to peaceful submission to bondage. they were quiet [[men]]; but they did not shrink from agitating against oppression. they showed forbearance; but that they knew its limits. they believed in order; but not in the order of [[tyranny]]. with them, nothing was “settled” that was not [[right]]. with them, [[justice]], [[liberty]] and [[humanity]] were “final;” not [[slavery]] and oppression. you may well cherish the memory of such [[men]]. they were [[great]] in their day and [[generation]]. their solid manhood stands out the more as we contrast it with these degenerate times [[time]].

how circumspect, exact and proportionate were all their movements! how unlike the politicians of an hour! their statesmanship looked beyond the passing moment, and stretched away in [[strength]] into the distant future. they seized upon eternal principles [[principle]], and set a glorious [[example]] in their defense. mark them!

fully appreciating the hardship to be encountered, firmly believing in the [[right]] of their cause, honorably inviting the scrutiny of an on-looking [[world]], reverently appealing to [[heaven]] to attest their sincerity, soundly comprehending the solemn responsibility they were about to assume, wisely measuring the terrible odds against them, your fathers [[father]], the fathers [[father]] of this [[republic]], did, most deliberately, under the inspiration of a glorious [[patriotism]], and with a sublime [[faith]] in the [[great]] principles [[principle]] of [[justice]] and [[freedom]], lay deep the corner-stone of the national superstructure, which has risen and still rises in grandeur around you.
of this fundamental [[work]], this day is the anniversary. our [[eyes]] are met with demonstrations of joyous enthusiasm. banners and pennants wave exultingly on the breeze. the din of [[business]], too, is hushed. even mammon seems to have quitted his grasp on this day. the ear-piercing fife and the stirring drum unite their accents with the ascending peal of a thousand [[church]] bells. prayers are made, hymns are sung, and sermons are preached in [[honor]] of this day; while the quick martial tramp of a [[great]] and multitudinous nation, echoed back by all the hills, valleys and mountains of a vast continent, bespeak the [[occasion]] one of thrilling and universal interest — a nation’s jubilee.

friends and [[citizens]], i need not enter further into the causes which [[led]] to this anniversary. many of you [[understand]] them [[better]] than i do. you could instruct me in regard to them. that is a branch of [[knowledge]] in which you [[feel]], perhaps, a much deeper interest than your speaker. the causes which [[led]] to the separation of the colonies from the british [[crown]] have never lacked for a tongue. they have all been taught in your [[common]] schools, narrated at your firesides, unfolded from your pulpits, and thundered from your legislative halls, and are as familiar to you as household words.
they form the staple of your national poetry and eloquence.

i [[remember]], also, that, as a [[people]], americans are remarkably familiar with all facts [[fact]] which make in their own favor. this is esteemed by some as a national trait — perhaps a national weakness. it is a [[fact]], that whatever makes for the [[wealth]] or for the [[reputation]] of americans, and can be had cheap! will be found by americans. i shall not be charged with slandering americans, if i say i [[think]] the american side of any [[question]] may be safely left in american hands.

i leave, therefore, the [[great]] deeds of your fathers [[father]] to other gentlemen whose claim to have been regularly descended will be less likely to be disputed than mine!

my [[business]], if i have any here to-day, is with the [[present]]. the accepted [[time]] with [[god]] and his cause is the ever-living now.

trust no future, however pleasant, let the [[dead]] [[past]] bury its [[dead]]; act, act in the living [[present]], [[heart]] within, and [[god]] overhead.

we have to do with the [[past]] only as we can make it useful to the [[present]] and to the future. to all inspiring motives, to [[noble]] deeds which can be gained from the [[past]], we are welcome. but now is the [[time]], the important [[time]]. your fathers [[father]] have lived, died, and have done their [[work]], and have done much of it well. you [[live]] and must [[die]], and you must do your [[work]]. you have no [[right]] to enjoy a child’s share in the labor of your fathers [[father]], unless your [[children]] are to be blest by your labors. you have no [[right]] to wear out and waste the hard-earned fame of your fathers [[father]] to cover your indolence. sydney smith tells us that [[men]] seldom eulogize the [[wisdom]] and virtues [[virtue]] of their fathers [[father]], but to excuse some folly or wickedness of their own. this [[truth]] is not a doubtful one. there are illustrations of it near and remote, ancient and [[modern]]. it was fashionable, hundreds of years ago, for the [[children]] of jacob to boast, we have “abraham to our [[father]],” when they had long lost abraham’s [[faith]] and spirit. that [[people]] contented themselves under the shadow of abraham’s [[great]] name, while they repudiated the deeds which made his name [[great]]. need i remind you that a similar thing is being done all over this [[country]] to-day? need i tell you that the [[jews]] are not the only [[people]] who built the tombs of the prophets [[prophet]], and garnished the sepulchres of the righteous?
washington could not [[die]] till he had broken the chains of his slaves [[slave]]. yet his monument is built up by the price of [[human]] [[blood]], and the traders in the bodies [[body]] and souls [[soul]] of [[men]] shout — “we have washington to our [[father]].” — alas! that it should be so; yet so it is.

the [[evil]] that [[men]] do, lives [[life]] after them, the [[good]] is oft-interred with their bones.

fellow-citizens, pardon me, allow me to ask, why am i called upon to speak here to-day? what have i, or those i represent, to do with your national independence? are the [[great]] principles [[principle]] of [[political]] [[freedom]] and of [[natural]] [[justice]], embodied in that declaration of independence, extended to us? and am i, therefore, called upon to bring our humble offering to the national altar, and to confess the benefits and express devout gratitude for the blessings resulting from your independence to us?

would to [[god]], both for your sakes and ours, that an affirmative [[answer]] could be truthfully returned to these questions! then would my task be [[light]], and my burden easy and delightful. for who is there so cold, that a nation’s sympathy could not warm him? who so obdurate and [[dead]] to the claims of gratitude, that would not thankfully acknowledge such priceless benefits? who so stolid and selfish, that would not give his voice to swell the hallelujahs of a nation’s jubilee, when the chains of servitude had been torn from his limbs? i am not that [[man]]. in a case like that, the dumb might eloquently speak, and the “lame [[man]] leap as an hart.”

but, such is not the [[state]] of the case. i say it with a [[sad]] sense of the disparity between us. i am not included within the pale of this glorious anniversary! your high independence only reveals the immeasurable distance between us. the blessings in which you, this day, rejoice, are not enjoyed in [[common]]. — the [[rich]] [[inheritance]] of [[justice]], [[liberty]], [[prosperity]] and independence, bequeathed by your fathers [[father]], is shared by you, not by me. the sunlight that brought [[life]] and healing to you, has brought stripes and [[death]] to me. this fourth [of] july is yours, not mine. you may rejoice, i must mourn. to drag a [[man]] in fetters into the grand illuminated temple of [[liberty]], and call upon him to join you in joyous anthems, were inhuman mockery and sacrilegious irony. do you mean, [[citizens]], to mock me, by asking me to speak to-day? if so, there is a parallel to your conduct. and let me warn you that it is dangerous to copy the [[example]] of a nation whose crimes, lowering up to [[heaven]], were thrown down by the breath of the almighty, burying that nation in irrecoverable ruin! i can to-day take up the plaintive lament of a peeled and woe-smitten people!

“by the rivers of [[babylon]], there we sat down. yea! we wept when we remembered zion. we [[hanged]] our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof. for there, they that carried us away captive, required of us a [[song]]; and they who wasted us required of us mirth, saying, sing us one of the songs [[song]] of zion. how can we sing the lord’s [[song]] in a [[strange]] [[land]]? if i forget thee, o [[jerusalem]], let my [[right]] hand forget her cunning. if i do not [[remember]] thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth.”

fellow-citizens; above your national, tumultuous joy, i hear the mournful wail of millions! whose chains, heavy and grievous yesterday, are, to-day, rendered more intolerable by the jubilee shouts that reach them. if i do forget, if i do not faithfully [[remember]] those bleeding [[children]] of [[sorrow]] this day, “may my [[right]] hand forget her cunning, and may my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth!” to forget them, to pass lightly over their wrongs [[wrong]], and to chime in with the popular theme, would be [[treason]] most scandalous and shocking, and would make me a reproach before [[god]] and the [[world]].
my [[subject]], then fellow-citizens, is american [[slavery]]. i shall see, this day, and its popular characteristics, from the slave’s point of view. standing, there, identified with the american
bondman, making his wrongs [[wrong]] mine, i do not hesitate to declare, with all my [[soul]], that the [[character]] and conduct of this nation never looked blacker to me than on this 4th of july! whether we turn to the declarations of the [[past]], or to the professions of the [[present]], the conduct of the nation seems equally hideous and revolting. [[america]] is false to the [[past]], false to the [[present]], and solemnly binds herself to be false to the future. standing with [[god]] and the crushed and bleeding [[slave]] on this [[occasion]], i will, in the name of [[humanity]] which is outraged, in the name of [[liberty]] which is fettered, in the name of the [[constitution]] and the bible, which are disregarded and trampled upon, dare to call in [[question]] and to denounce, with all the emphasis i can command, everything that serves to perpetuate [[slavery]] — the [[great]] [[sin]] and shame of america! “i will not equivocate; i will not excuse;” i will use the severest [[language]] i can command; and yet not one word shall escape me that any [[man]], whose [[judgment]] is not blinded by prejudice, or who is not at [[heart]] a slaveholder, shall not confess to be [[right]] and just.

but i fancy i hear some one of my audience say, it is just in this circumstance that you and your [[brother]] abolitionists fail to make a favorable impression on the [[public]] [[mind]]. would you argue more, and denounce less, would you persuade more, and rebuke less, your cause would be much more likely to succeed. but, i submit, where all is plain there is nothing to be argued. what point in the anti-slavery creed would you have me argue? on what branch of the [[subject]] do the [[people]] of this [[country]] need [[light]]? must i undertake to prove that the [[slave]] is a [[man]]? that point is conceded already. nobody doubts [[doubt]] it. the slaveholders themselves acknowledge it in the enactment of laws [[law]] for their [[government]]. they acknowledge it when they punish disobedience on the part of the [[slave]]. there are seventy-two crimes in the [[state]] of virginia, which, if committed by a black [[man]], (no matter how ignorant he be), [[subject]] him to the [[punishment]] of [[death]]; while only two of the same crimes will [[subject]] a [[white]] [[man]] to the like [[punishment]]. what is this but the acknowledgement that the [[slave]] is a [[moral]], intellectual and responsible being? the manhood of the [[slave]] is conceded. it is admitted in the [[fact]] that southern statute books [[book]] are covered with enactments forbidding, under severe fines and penalties, the teaching of the [[slave]] to [[read]] or to write. when you can point to any such laws [[law]], in reference to the beasts of the field, then i may [[consent]] to argue the manhood of the [[slave]]. when the dogs in your streets, when the fowls of the air, when the cattle on your hills, when the fish of the sea, and the reptiles that crawl, shall be unable to distinguish the [[slave]] from a brute, then will i argue with you that the [[slave]] is a man!

for the [[present]], it is enough to affirm the [[equal]] manhood of the negro [[race]]. is it not astonishing that, while we are ploughing, planting and reaping, using all kinds [[kind]] of mechanical tools, erecting houses, constructing bridges, building ships, working in metals of brass, iron, copper, silver and gold; that, while we are reading, writing and cyphering, acting as clerks, merchants and secretaries, having among us lawyers, doctors, ministers, poets, authors, editors, orators and teachers; that, while we are engaged in all manner of enterprises [[common]] to other [[men]], digging gold in california, capturing the whale in the pacific, feeding sheep and cattle on the hill-side, living, moving, acting, thinking, planning, living in families [[family]] as husbands, wives [[wife]] and [[children]], and, above all, confessing and worshipping the christian’s [[god]], and looking hopefully for [[life]] and immortality beyond the grave, we are called upon to prove that we are men!

would you have me argue that [[man]] is entitled to [[liberty]]? that he is the rightful owner of his own [[body]]? you have already declared it. must i argue the wrongfulness of [[slavery]]? is that a [[question]] for republicans? is it to be settled by the rules [[rule]] of [[logic]] and argumentation, as a matter beset with [[great]] difficulty, involving a doubtful application of the [[principle]] of [[justice]], hard to be understood? how should i look to-day, in the presence of americans, dividing, and subdividing a discourse, to show that [[men]] have a [[natural]] [[right]] to [[freedom]]? speaking of it relatively, and positively, negatively, and affirmatively. to do so, would be to make myself ridiculous, and to offer an insult to your understanding. — there is not a [[man]] beneath the canopy of [[heaven]], that does not [[know]] that [[slavery]] is [[wrong]] for him.

what, am i to argue that it is [[wrong]] to make [[men]] brutes, to rob them of their [[liberty]], to [[work]] them without wages, to keep them ignorant of their relations to their fellow [[men]], to beat them with sticks, to flay their flesh with the lash, to load their limbs with irons, to hunt them with dogs, to sell them at auction, to sunder their families [[family]], to knock out their teeth, to bum their flesh, to starve them into [[obedience]] and submission to their masters? must i argue that a [[system]] thus marked with [[blood]], and stained with pollution, is [[wrong]]? no! i will not. i have [[better]] employments for my [[time]] and [[strength]] than such arguments would imply.

what, then, remains to be argued? is it that [[slavery]] is not [[divine]]; that [[god]] did not establish it; that our doctors of divinity are mistaken? there is blasphemy in the [[thought]]. that which is inhuman, cannot be divine! who can [[reason]] on such a proposition? they that can, may; i cannot. the [[time]] for such argument is passed.

at a [[time]] like this, scorching irony, not convincing argument, is needed. o! had i the ability, and could i reach the nation’s ear, i would, to-day, pour out a fiery stream of biting ridicule, blasting reproach, withering sarcasm, and stern rebuke. for it is not [[light]] that is needed, but [[fire]]; it is not the gentle shower, but thunder. we need the storm, the whirlwind, and the earthquake. the feeling of the nation must be quickened; the [[conscience]] of the nation must be roused; the propriety of the nation must be startled; the hypocrisy of the nation must be exposed; and its crimes against [[god]] and [[man]] must be proclaimed and denounced.

what, to the american [[slave]], is your 4th of july? i [[answer]]: a day that reveals to him, more than all other days in the year, the gross [[injustice]] and [[cruelty]] to which he is the constant victim. to him, your celebration is a sham; your boasted [[liberty]], an unholy license; your national greatness, swelling vanity; your sounds of rejoicing are empty and heartless; your denunciations of tyrants [[tyrant]], brass fronted impudence; your shouts of [[liberty]] and equality, hollow mockery; your prayers and hymns, your sermons and thanksgivings, with all your [[religious]] parade, and solemnity, are, to him, mere bombast, fraud, deception, impiety, and hypocrisy — a thin veil to cover up crimes which would disgrace a nation of savages. there is not a nation on the [[earth]] guilty of practices, more shocking and bloody, than are the [[people]] of these [[united]] states, at this very hour.

go where you may, search where you will, roam through all the monarchies [[monarchy]] and despotisms of the old [[world]], travel through south [[america]], search out every [[abuse]], and when you have found the [[last]], lay your facts [[fact]] by the side of the everyday practices of this nation, and you will say with me, that, for revolting barbarity and shameless hypocrisy, [[america]] reigns without a rival.

take the american slave-trade, which, we are told by the papers, is especially prosperous just now. ex-senator benton tells us that the price of [[men]] was never higher than now. he mentions the [[fact]] to show that [[slavery]] is in no danger. this [[trade]] is one of the peculiarities of american [[institutions]]. it is carried on in all the large towns and cities [[city]] in one-half of this confederacy; and millions are pocketed every year, by dealers in this horrid traffic. in several states, this [[trade]] is a [[chief]] source of [[wealth]]. it is called (in contradistinction to the [[foreign]] slave-trade) “the internal [[slave]] [[trade]].” it is, probably, called so, too, in order to divert from it the [[horror]] with which the [[foreign]] slave-trade is contemplated. that [[trade]] has long since been denounced by this [[government]], as piracy. it has been denounced with burning words, from the high places of the nation, as an execrable traffic. to arrest it, to put an end to it, this nation keeps a squadron, at immense cost, on the coast of [[africa]].
everywhere, in this [[country]], it is safe to speak of this [[foreign]] slave-trade, as a most inhuman traffic, opposed alike to the laws [[law]] of [[god]] and of [[man]]. the [[duty]] to extirpate and [[destroy]] it, is admitted even by our doctors of divinity. in order to put an end to it, some of these [[last]] have consented that their colored brethren [[brother]] (nominally free) should leave this [[country]], and establish themselves on the western coast of africa! it is, however, a notable [[fact]] that, while so much execration is poured out by americans upon those engaged in the [[foreign]] slave-trade, the [[men]] engaged in the slave-trade between the states pass without condemnation, and their [[business]] is deemed honorable.

behold the practical operation of this internal slave-trade, the american slave-trade, sustained by american [[politics]] and [[america]] [[religion]]. here you will see [[men]] and [[women]] reared like swine for the market. you [[know]] what is a swine-drover? i will show you a man-drover. they inhabit all our southern states. they perambulate the [[country]], and crowd the highways of the nation, with droves of [[human]] stock. you will see one of these [[human]] flesh-jobbers, armed with pistol, whip and bowie- knife, driving a company of a hundred [[men]], [[women]], and [[children]], from the potomac to the [[slave]] market at new orleans. these wretched [[people]] are to be sold singly, or in lots, to suit purchasers. they are food for the cotton-field, and the deadly sugar-mill. mark the [[sad]] procession, as it moves wearily along, and the inhuman wretch who drives them. hear his savage yells and his blood- chilling oaths, as he hurries on his affrighted captives! there, see the old [[man]], with locks thinned and gray. cast one glance, if you please, upon that [[young]] [[mother]], whose shoulders are bare to the scorching sun, her briny tears falling on the brow of the babe in her arms. see, too, that girl of thirteen, weeping, yes! weeping, as she thinks [[think]] of the [[mother]] from whom she has been torn! the drove moves tardily. heat and [[sorrow]] have nearly consumed their [[strength]]; suddenly you hear a quick snap, like the discharge of a rifle; the fetters clank, and the chain rattles simultaneously; your ears are saluted with a scream, that seems to have torn its way to the center of your soul! the crack you heard, was the sound of the slave-whip; the scream you heard, was from the woman you saw with the babe. her speed had faltered under the weight of her child and her chains! that gash on her shoulder tells her to move on. [[follow]] the drove to new orleans. attend the auction; see [[men]] examined like horses; see the forms of [[women]] rudely and brutally exposed to the shocking gaze of american slave-buyers. see this drove sold and separated forever; and never forget the deep, [[sad]] sobs that arose from that scattered multitude. tell me [[citizens]], where, under the sun, you can witness a spectacle more fiendish and shocking. yet this is but a glance at the american slave-trade, as it exists, at this moment, in the ruling part of the [[united]] states.

i was born amid such sights and scenes. to me the american slave-trade is a terrible reality. when a child, my [[soul]] was often pierced with a sense of its horrors. i lived on philpot street, fell’s point, baltimore, and have watched from the wharves, the [[slave]] ships in the basin, anchored from the shore, with their cargoes of [[human]] flesh, waiting for favorable winds to waft them down the chesapeake. there was, at that [[time]], a grand [[slave]] mart kept at the head of pratt street, by austin woldfolk. his agents were sent into every town and county in maryland, announcing their arrival, through the papers, and on flaming “hand-bills,” headed cash for negroes. these [[men]] were generally well dressed [[men]], and very captivating in their manners. ever ready to drink, to treat, and to gamble. the [[fate]] of many a [[slave]] has depended upon the turn of a [[single]] card; and many a child has been snatched from the arms of its [[mother]] by bargains arranged in a [[state]] of brutal drunkenness.

the flesh-mongers gather up their victims by dozens, and drive them, chained, to the general depot at baltimore. when a sufficient number have been collected here, a ship is chartered, for the [[purpose]] of conveying the forlorn crew to mobile, or to new orleans. from the [[slave]] prison to the ship, they are usually driven in the darkness of night; for since the antislavery agitation, a [[certain]] caution is observed.

in the deep still darkness of midnight, i have been often aroused by the [[dead]] heavy footsteps, and the piteous cries of the chained gangs that passed our door. the anguish of my boyish [[heart]] was intense; and i was often consoled, when speaking to my mistress in the morning, to hear her say that the custom was very wicked; that she hated to hear the rattle of the chains, and the heart- rending cries. i was glad to find one who sympathized with me in my [[horror]].

fellow-citizens, this murderous traffic is, to-day, in active operation in this boasted [[republic]]. in the solitude of my spirit, i see clouds of dust raised on the highways of the south; i see the bleeding footsteps; i hear the doleful wail of fettered [[humanity]], on the way to the slave-markets, where the victims are to be sold like horses, sheep, and swine, knocked off to the highest bidder. there i see the tenderest ties ruthlessly broken, to gratify the [[lust]], caprice and rapacity of the buyers and sellers of [[men]]. my [[soul]] sickens at the sight.

is this the [[land]] your fathers [[father]] loved, the [[freedom]] which they toiled to [[win]]? is this the [[earth]] whereon they moved? are these the graves they slumber in?

but a still more inhuman, disgraceful, and scandalous [[state]] of things remains to be presented. by an act of the american congress, not yet two years old, [[slavery]] has been nationalized in its most
horrible and revolting form. by that act, mason and dixon’s line has been obliterated; new york has become as virginia; and the [[power]] to hold, hunt, and sell [[men]], [[women]], and [[children]] as slaves
remains no longer a mere [[state]] institution, but is now an institution of the whole [[united]] states. the [[power]] is co-extensive with the star-spangled banner and american [[christianity]]. where these go, may also go the merciless slave-hunter. where these are, [[man]] is not [[sacred]]. he is a bird for the
sportsman’s gun. by that most foul and fiendish of all [[human]] decrees, the [[liberty]] and [[person]] of every [[man]] are put in peril. your broad republican domain is hunting ground for [[men]]. not for thieves and robbers, enemies [[enemy]] of [[society]], merely, but for [[men]] guilty of no crime. your lawmakers have commanded all [[good]] [[citizens]] to engage in this hellish [[sport]]. your president, your secretary of [[state]], our lords [[lord]], nobles [[noble]], and ecclesiastics, enforce, as a [[duty]] you owe to your [[free]] and glorious [[country]], and to your [[god]], that you do this accursed thing. not fewer than forty americans have, within the [[past]] two years, been hunted down and, without a moment’s warning, hurried away in chains, and consigned to [[slavery]] and excruciating torture. some of these have had wives [[wife]] and [[children]], dependent on them for bread; but of this, no account was made. the [[right]] of the hunter to his prey stands superior to the [[right]] of [[marriage]], and to all rights [[right]] in this [[republic]], the rights [[right]] of [[god]] included! for black [[men]] there are neither [[law]], [[justice]], [[humanity]], not [[religion]]. the fugitive [[slave]] [[law]] makes [[mercy]] to them a crime; and bribes the [[judge]] who tries them. an american [[judge]] gets ten dollars for every victim he consigns to [[slavery]], and five, when he fails to do so. the oath of any two villains is sufficient, under this hell-black enactment, to send the most pious and exemplary black [[man]] into the remorseless jaws of slavery! his own testimony is nothing. he can bring no witnesses for himself. the minister of american [[justice]] is bound by the [[law]] to hear but one side; and that side, is the side of the oppressor. let this damning [[fact]] be perpetually told. let it be thundered around the [[world]], that, in tyrant-killing, king-hating, people-loving, democratic, [[christian]] [[america]], the seats of [[justice]] are filled with judges [[judge]], who hold their offices under an open and palpable bribe, and are bound, in deciding in the case of a man’s [[liberty]], hear only his accusers!

in glaring violation of [[justice]], in shameless disregard of the forms of administering [[law]], in cunning arrangement to entrap the defenseless, and in diabolical intent, this fugitive [[slave]] [[law]] stands alone in the annals of [[tyrannical]] legislation. i [[doubt]] if there be another nation on the globe, having the brass and the baseness to put such a [[law]] on the statute-book. if any [[man]] in this assembly thinks [[think]] differently from me in this matter, and feels [[feel]] able to disprove my statements, i will gladly confront him at any suitable [[time]] and place he may select.

i take this [[law]] to be one of the grossest infringements of [[christian]] [[liberty]], and, if the churches [[church]] and ministers of our [[country]] were not stupidly blind, or most wickedly indifferent, they, too, would so regard it.

at the very moment that they are thanking [[god]] for the enjoyment of civil and [[religious]] [[liberty]], and for the [[right]] to [[worship]] [[god]] according to the dictates of their own consciences, they are utterly silent in [[respect]] to a [[law]] which robs [[religion]] of its [[chief]] significance, and makes it utterly worthless to a [[world]] lying in wickedness. did this [[law]] concern the “mint, anise, and cumin” — abridge the [[right]] to sing psalms, to partake of the sacrament, or to engage in any of the ceremonies [[ceremony]] of [[religion]], it would be smitten by the thunder of a thousand pulpits. a general shout would go up from the [[church]], demanding repeal, repeal, instant repeal! — and it would go hard with that politician who presumed to solicit the votes of the [[people]] without inscribing this motto on his banner. further, if this demand were not complied with, another [[scotland]] would be added to the [[history]] of [[religious]] [[liberty]], and the stern old covenanters would be thrown into the shade. a john knox would be seen at every [[church]] door, and heard from every pulpit, and fillmore would have no more quarter than was shown by knox, to the beautiful, but [[treacherous]] queen [[mary]] of [[scotland]]. the [[fact]] that the
church of our [[country]], (with fractional exceptions), does not esteem “the fugitive [[slave]] law” as a declaration of [[war]] against [[religious]] [[liberty]], implies that that [[church]] regards [[religion]] simply as a form of [[worship]], an empty [[ceremony]], and not a vital [[principle]], requiring active benevolence, [[justice]], [[love]] and [[good]] will towards [[man]]. it esteems [[sacrifice]] above [[mercy]]; psalm-singing above [[right]] doing; solemn meetings above practical [[righteousness]]. a [[worship]] that can be conducted by persons [[person]] who refuse to give shelter to the houseless, to give bread to the hungry, clothing to the naked, and who enjoin [[obedience]] to a [[law]] forbidding these acts of [[mercy]], is a curse, not a blessing to [[mankind]]. the bible addresses all such persons [[person]] as “scribes, pharisees, hypocrites, who [[pay]] tithe of mint, anise, and cumin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the [[law]], [[judgment]], [[mercy]] and [[faith]].”

but the [[church]] of this [[country]] is not only indifferent to the wrongs [[wrong]] of the [[slave]], it actually takes sides with the oppressors. it has made itself the bulwark of american [[slavery]], and the shield of american slave-hunters. many of its most eloquent divines. who stand as the very lights [[light]] of the [[church]], have shamelessly given the sanction of [[religion]] and the bible to the whole [[slave]] [[system]]. they have taught that [[man]] may, properly, be a [[slave]]; that the relation of master and [[slave]] is ordained of [[god]]; that to send back an escaped bondman to his master is clearly the [[duty]] of all the followers of the [[lord]] [[jesus]] [[christ]]; and this horrible blasphemy is palmed off upon the [[world]] for [[christianity]].

for my part, i would say, welcome infidelity! welcome atheism! welcome anything! in preference to the gospel, as preached by those divines! they convert the very name of [[religion]] into an engine of [[tyranny]], and barbarous [[cruelty]], and serve to confirm more infidels, in this [[age]], than all the infidel writings of thomas paine, voltaire, and bolingbroke, put together, have done! these ministers make [[religion]] a cold and flinty-hearted thing, having neither principles [[principle]] of [[right]] action, nor bowels of compassion. they strip the [[love]] of [[god]] of its [[beauty]], and leave the throng of [[religion]] a huge, horrible, repulsive form. it is a [[religion]] for oppressors, tyrants [[tyrant]], man-stealers, and thugs. it is not
that “pure and undefiled religion” which is from above, and which is “first pure, then peaceable, easy to be entreated, full of [[mercy]] and [[good]] fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy.” but a [[religion]] which favors the [[rich]] against the [[poor]]; which exalts the proud above the humble; which divides [[mankind]] into two classes, tyrants [[tyrant]] and slaves [[slave]]; which says to the [[man]] in chains, stay there; and to the oppressor, [[oppress]] on; it is a [[religion]] which may be professed and enjoyed by all the robbers and enslavers of [[mankind]]; it makes [[god]] a respecter of persons [[person]], denies his fatherhood of the [[race]], and tramples in the dust the [[great]] [[truth]] of the brotherhood of [[man]]. all this we affirm to be true of the popular [[church]], and the popular [[worship]] of our [[land]] and nation — a [[religion]], a [[church]], and a [[worship]] which, on the [[authority]] of inspired [[wisdom]], we pronounce to be an abomination in the sight of [[god]]. in the [[language]] of isaiah, the american [[church]] might be well addressed, “bring no more [[vain]] ablations; incense is an abomination unto me: the new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, i cannot away with; it is [[iniquity]] even the solemn meeting. your new moons and your appointed feasts my [[soul]] hateth. they are a trouble to me; i am weary to bear them; and when ye spread forth your hands i will hide mine [[eyes]] from you. yea! when ye make many prayers, i will not hear. your hands are full of [[blood]]; cease to do [[evil]], learn to do well; seek [[judgment]]; relieve the [[oppressed]]; [[judge]] for the fatherless; plead for the widow.”

the american [[church]] is guilty, when viewed in connection with what it is doing to uphold [[slavery]]; but it is superlatively guilty when viewed in connection with its ability to abolish [[slavery]]. the [[sin]] of which it is guilty is one of omission as well as of commission. albert barnes but uttered what the [[common]] sense of every [[man]] at all observant of the actual [[state]] of the case will receive as [[truth]], when he declared that “there is no [[power]] out of the [[church]] that could sustain [[slavery]] an hour, if it were not sustained in it.”

let the [[religious]] press, the pulpit, the sunday school, the conference meeting, the [[great]] ecclesiastical, missionary, bible and tract associations of the [[land]] array their immense powers [[power]] against [[slavery]] and slave-holding; and the whole [[system]] of crime and [[blood]] would be scattered to the winds; and that they do not do this involves them in the most awful responsibility of which the [[mind]] can conceive.

in prosecuting the anti-slavery enterprise, we have been [[asked]] to spare the [[church]], to spare the ministry; but how, we ask, could such a thing be done? we are met on the threshold of our efforts for the redemption of the [[slave]], by the [[church]] and ministry of the [[country]], in [[battle]] arrayed against us; and we are compelled to [[fight]] or flee. from what quarter, i beg to [[know]], has proceeded a [[fire]] so deadly upon our ranks, during the [[last]] two years, as from the northern pulpit? as the champions of oppressors, the chosen [[men]] of american theology have appeared — [[men]], honored for their so- called piety, and their real learning. the lords [[lord]] of buffalo, the springs of new york, the lathrops of auburn, the coxes and spencers of brooklyn, the gannets and sharps of boston, the deweys of washington, and other [[great]] [[religious]] lights [[light]] of the [[land]] have, in utter denial of the [[authority]] of him by whom they professed to be called to the ministry, deliberately taught us, against the [[example]] or
the hebrews and against the remonstrance of the [[apostles]], they [[teach]] that we ought to obey man’s [[law]] before the [[law]] of [[god]].

my spirit wearies of such blasphemy; and how such [[men]] can be supported, as the “standing types and representatives of [[jesus]] [[christ]],” is a mystery which i leave others to penetrate. in speaking of the american [[church]], however, let it be distinctly understood that i mean the [[great]] mass of the [[religious]] organizations of our [[land]]. there are exceptions, and i thank [[god]] that there are. [[noble]] [[men]] may be found, scattered all over these northern states, of whom henry ward beecher of brooklyn, samuel j. may of syracuse, and my esteemed friend (rev. r. r. raymond) on the platform, are shining examples [[example]]; and let me say further, that upon these [[men]] lies [[lie]] the [[duty]] to inspire our ranks with high [[religious]] [[faith]] and zeal, and to cheer us on in the [[great]] mission of the slave’s redemption from his chains.

one is struck with the difference between the attitude of the american [[church]] towards the anti- [[slavery]] movement, and that occupied by the churches [[church]] in [[england]] towards a similar movement in that [[country]]. there, the [[church]], true to its mission of ameliorating, elevating, and improving the condition of [[mankind]], came forward promptly, bound up the wounds of the west [[indian]] [[slave]], and restored him to his [[liberty]]. there, the [[question]] of emancipation was a high [[religious]] [[question]]. it was demanded, in the name of [[humanity]], and according to the [[law]] of the living [[god]]. the sharps, the clarksons, the wilberforces, the buxtons, and burchells and the knibbs, were alike famous for their piety, and for their philanthropy. the anti-slavery movement there was not an anti-church movement, for the [[reason]] that the [[church]] took its full share in prosecuting that movement: and the anti-slavery movement in this [[country]] will cease to be an anti-church movement, when the [[church]] of this [[country]] shall assume a favorable, instead of a hostile position towards that movement.
americans! your republican [[politics]], not less than your republican [[religion]], are flagrantly inconsistent. you boast of your [[love]] of [[liberty]], your superior [[civilization]], and your pure [[christianity]], while the whole [[political]] [[power]] of the nation (as embodied in the two [[great]] [[political]] parties), is solemnly pledged to support and perpetuate the enslavement of three millions of your countrymen. you hurl your anathemas at the crowned headed tyrants [[tyrant]] of russia and austria, and [[pride]] yourselves on your democratic [[institutions]], while you yourselves [[consent]] to be the mere tools and body-guards of the tyrants [[tyrant]] of virginia and carolina. you invite to your shores fugitives of oppression from abroad, [[honor]] them with banquets, greet them with ovations, cheer them, toast them, salute them, [[protect]] them, and pour out your [[money]] to them like water; but the fugitives from your own [[land]] you advertise, hunt, arrest, shoot and kill. you [[glory]] in your refinement and your universal [[education]] yet you maintain a [[system]] as barbarous and dreadful as ever stained the [[character]] of a nation — a [[system]] begun in avarice, supported in [[pride]], and perpetuated in [[cruelty]]. you shed tears over fallen hungary, and make the [[sad]] story of her wrongs [[wrong]] the theme of your poets, statesmen and orators, till your gallant sons [[son]] are ready to fly to arms to vindicate her cause against her oppressors; but, in regard to the ten thousand wrongs [[wrong]] of the american [[slave]], you would enforce the strictest [[silence]], and would hail him as an [[enemy]] of the nation who dares to make those wrongs [[wrong]] the [[subject]] of [[public]] discourse! you are all on [[fire]] at the mention of [[liberty]] for [[france]] or for ireland; but are as cold as an iceberg at the [[thought]] of [[liberty]] for the enslaved of [[america]]. you discourse eloquently on the [[dignity]] of labor; yet, you sustain a [[system]] which, in its very essence, casts a stigma upon labor. you can bare your bosom to the storm of british artillery to throw off a threepenny tax on tea; and yet wring the [[last]] hard-earned farthing from the grasp of the black laborers of your [[country]]. you profess to [[believe]] “that, of one [[blood]], [[god]] made all nations of [[men]] to dwell on the face of all the
earth,” and hath commanded all [[men]], everywhere to [[love]] one another; yet you notoriously hate, (and [[glory]] in your hatred), all [[men]] whose skins are not colored like your own. you declare, before the [[world]], and are understood by the [[world]] to declare, that you “hold these truths [[truth]] to be [[self]] evident, that all [[men]] are created [[equal]]; and are endowed by their creator with [[certain]] inalienable rights [[right]]; and that, among these are, [[life]], [[liberty]], and the pursuit of [[happiness]];” and yet, you hold securely, in a bondage which, according to your own thomas jefferson, “is worse than ages [[age]] of that which your fathers [[father]] rose in rebellion to oppose,” a seventh part of the inhabitants of your [[country]].

fellow-citizens! i will not enlarge further on your national inconsistencies. the existence of [[slavery]] in this [[country]] brands your republicanism as a sham, your [[humanity]] as a base pretence, and your [[christianity]] as a [[lie]]. it destroys your [[moral]] [[power]] abroad; it corrupts your politicians at [[home]]. it saps the foundation of [[religion]]; it makes your name a hissing, and a bye-word to a mocking [[earth]]. it is the antagonistic [[force]] in your [[government]], the only thing that seriously disturbs and endangers your union. it fetters your [[progress]]; it is the [[enemy]] of improvement, the deadly foe of [[education]]; it fosters [[pride]]; it breeds insolence; it promotes [[vice]]; it shelters crime; it is a curse to the [[earth]] that supports it; and yet, you cling to it, as if it were the sheet anchor of all your hopes [[hope]]. oh! be warned! be warned! a horrible reptile is coiled up in your nation’s bosom; the venomous creature is nursing at the tender breast of your youthful [[republic]]; for the [[love]] of [[god]], tear away, and fling from you the hideous monster, and let the weight of twenty millions crush and [[destroy]] it forever!

but it is answered in reply to all this, that precisely what i have now denounced is, in [[fact]], guaranteed and sanctioned by the [[constitution]] of the [[united]] states; that the [[right]] to hold and to hunt slaves [[slave]] is a part of that [[constitution]] framed by the illustrious fathers [[father]] of this [[republic]].

then, i dare to affirm, notwithstanding all i have said before, your fathers [[father]] stooped, basely stooped

to palter with us in a double sense:
and keep the word of promise to the ear, but break it to the [[heart]]. and instead of being the honest [[men]] i have before declared them to be, they were the veriest imposters that ever practiced on [[mankind]]. this is the inevitable conclusion, and from it there is no escape. but i differ from those who charge this baseness on the framers of the [[constitution]] of the [[united]] states. it is a slander upon their memory, at least, so i [[believe]]. there is not [[time]] now to argue the constitutional [[question]] at length — nor have i the ability to discuss it as it ought to be discussed. the [[subject]] has been handled with masterly [[power]] by lysander spooner, esq., by william goodell, by samuel e. sewall, esq., and [[last]], though not least, by gerritt smith, esq. these gentlemen have, as i [[think]], fully and clearly vindicated the [[constitution]] from any design to support [[slavery]] for an hour.

fellow-citizens! there is no matter in [[respect]] to which, the [[people]] of the north have allowed themselves to be so ruinously imposed upon, as that of the pro-slavery [[character]] of the [[constitution]]. in that instrument i hold there is neither warrant, license, nor sanction of the hateful thing; but, interpreted as it ought to be interpreted, the [[constitution]] is a glorious [[liberty]] document. [[read]] its preamble, consider its purposes [[purpose]]. is [[slavery]] among them? is it at the gateway? or is it in the temple? it is neither. while i do not intend to argue this [[question]] on the [[present]] [[occasion]], let me ask, if it be not somewhat singular that, if the [[constitution]] were intended to be, by its framers and adopters, a slave-holding instrument, why neither [[slavery]], slaveholding, nor [[slave]] can anywhere be found in it. what would be [[thought]] of an instrument, drawn up, legally drawn up, for the [[purpose]] of entitling the [[city]] of rochester to a track of [[land]], in which no mention of [[land]] was made? now, there are [[certain]] rules [[rule]] of interpretation, for the proper understanding of all legal instruments. these rules [[rule]] are well established. they are plain, common-sense rules [[rule]], such as you and i, and all of us, can [[understand]] and apply, without having passed years in the study of [[law]]. i scout the [[idea]] that the [[question]] of the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of [[slavery]] is not a [[question]] for the [[people]]. i hold that every american citizen has a [[right]] to form an [[opinion]] of the [[constitution]], and to propagate that [[opinion]], and to use all honorable means to make his [[opinion]] the prevailing one. without this [[right]], the [[liberty]] of an american citizen would be as insecure as that of a frenchman. ex-vice-president dallas tells us that the [[constitution]] is an object to which no american [[mind]] can be too attentive, and no american [[heart]] too devoted. he further says, the [[constitution]], in its words, is plain and intelligible, and is meant for the home-bred, unsophisticated understandings of our fellow-citizens. senator berrien tell us that the [[constitution]] is the fundamental [[law]], that which controls all others. the charter of our liberties [[liberty]], which every citizen has a personal interest in understanding thoroughly. the testimony of senator breese, lewis cass, and many others that might be named, who are everywhere esteemed as sound lawyers, so regard the [[constitution]]. i take it, therefore, that it is not presumption in a private citizen to form an [[opinion]] of that instrument. now, take the [[constitution]] according to its plain reading, and i defy the presentation of a [[single]] pro- [[slavery]] clause in it. on the other hand it will be found to contain principles [[principle]] and purposes [[purpose]], entirely hostile to the existence of [[slavery]].

i have detained my audience entirely too long already. at some future period i will gladly avail myself of an opportunity to give this [[subject]] a full and [[fair]] discussion.

allow me to say, in conclusion, notwithstanding the dark picture i have this day presented of the [[state]] of the nation, i do not despair of this [[country]]. there are forces [[force]] in operation, which must inevitably [[work]] the downfall of [[slavery]]. “the arm of the [[lord]] is not shortened,” and the doom of
slavery is [[certain]]. i, therefore, leave off where i began, with [[hope]]. while drawing encouragement from the declaration of independence, the [[great]] principles [[principle]] it contains, and the genius of american [[institutions]], my spirit is also cheered by the obvious tendencies of the [[age]]. nations do not now stand in the same relation to each other that they did ages [[age]] ago. no nation can now shut itself up from the surrounding [[world]], and trot round in the same old path of its fathers [[father]] without interference. the [[time]] was when such could be done. long established customs of hurtful [[character]] could formerly fence themselves in, and do their [[evil]] [[work]] with social impunity. [[knowledge]] was then confined and enjoyed by the privileged few, and the multitude walked on in mental darkness. but a [[change]] has now come over the affairs of [[mankind]]. walled cities [[city]] and empires have become unfashionable. the arm of commerce has borne away the gates of the [[strong]] [[city]]. [[intelligence]] is penetrating the darkest corners of the globe. it makes its pathway over and under the sea, as well as on the [[earth]]. wind, steam, and lightning are its chartered agents. oceans no longer divide, but link nations together. from boston to [[london]] is now a holiday excursion. space is comparatively annihilated. thoughts [[thought]] expressed on one side of the atlantic, are distinctly heard on the other. the far off and almost fabulous pacific rolls in grandeur at our feet. the celestial [[empire]], the mystery of ages [[age]], is being solved. the fiat of the almighty, “let there be [[light]],” has not yet spent its [[force]]. no [[abuse]], no outrage whether in taste, [[sport]] or avarice, can now hide itself from the all-pervading [[light]]. the iron shoe, and crippled foot of [[china]] must be seen, in contrast with [[nature]]. [[africa]] must rise and put on her yet unwoven garment. “ethiopia shall stretch out her hand unto [[god]].” in the fervent aspirations of william lloyd garrison, i say, and let every [[heart]] join in saying it:
god speed the year of jubilee the wide [[world]] o’er
when from their galling chains set [[free]], th’ oppress’d shall vilely bend the knee,

and wear the yoke of [[tyranny]] like brutes no more.
that year will come, and freedom’s reign, to [[man]] his plundered fights again restore.

god speed the day when [[human]] [[blood]] shall cease to flow!
in every clime be understood,
the claims of [[human]] brotherhood, and each return for [[evil]], [[good]],
not blow for blow;
that day will come all feuds to end. and [[change]] into a faithful friend each foe.
god speed the hour, the glorious hour, when none on earth
shall exercise a lordly [[power]],
nor in a tyrant’s presence cower; but all to manhood’s stature tower, by [[equal]] birth!
that hour will come, to each, to all, and from his prison-house, the thrall go forth.

until that year, day, hour, arrive,
with head, and [[heart]], and hand i’ll strive, to break the rod, and rend the gyve,
the spoiler of his prey deprive — so witness heaven!
and never from my chosen post, whate’er the peril or the cost, be driven.



